---
section: "The Forty Days and Forty Nights"
day: "26"
title: "Day 26: Self-Guidance"
---

26.1 It has been said that you are the source and the power of coming to
know and making known. It naturally follows, then, that you are capable
of self-guidance.

26.2 Let us talk a moment of the concept of guidance. When you have
sought guidance, you have sought because you have not known. You have
sought externally because you have not known of a source of internal
guidance. You have been guided by teachers, counselors, and leaders of
all kinds, through words spoken and read, through dialogue, through
example. If you had known, you would not have sought guidance. Thus your
idea of guidance is likely to hinge upon this concept of the unknown.

26.3 Now letâ€™s speak a moment of the Self as guide. This simply means
that you turn to the Self as the source of coming to know of the
unknown. While simple, this idea can be expanded upon.

26.4 A guide shows the way, creates movement, gives direction. These
things too the Self can do if allowed to do so. The Self will guide you
if you will allow it to. Your Self will lead you down from the mountain
top and through the valleys of level ground. There is no other guide. We
are One Self.

26.5 You can trust in your Self. Will you? By tending your garden you
will develop this trust and prepare for your descent to level ground.

26.6 Your self-guidance can be thought of as an internal compass. It
will not necessarily know the answers as each answer is sought, but if
paid attention to, it will show you the way to knowing.

26.7 This alchemical transition, this passing of the unknown into the
known, this moment when the unknown becomes the known within the Self,
is the birth of creation. It is the culmination of all that has come
before, the All of Everything realized in a single heartbeat, a single
instant of knowing. This is the One Self knowing itself. This is not
knowing that comes with a great ah ha, but knowing that comes with the
awe of reverence. Creator and created are one and the homecoming
experienced is that of union.

26.8 Self-guidance is the propulsion, the fuel, for the One Self to know
itself. You are ready to be so known.

