---
treatise: "A Treatise on The Nature of Unity and Its Recognition: The Second Treatise"
chapter: "2"
title: "Treatise 2, Chapter 2: To Hear the Call"
---

2.1 Why would we begin “A Treatise on Unity” by talking of treasure? To
pave the way for talking of calling. What is it in you that recognizes
talents that lie fully realized within? The practical mind is not the
source of such imagination. The practical mind makes of imagination a
fantasy. It is the heart that sees with true imagination and the heart
that speaks to you in terms that are consistent with the idea you
currently hold of hearing a call or having a calling. 

2.2 Having a calling is spoken of in lofty terms. Few outside of those
who feel they have a calling for something beyond their ordinary,
limited view of themselves use this phrase. But many recognize that they
have a calling even unto things the world considers mundane. 

2.3 How does a farmer explain that she or he cannot be other than a
farmer? That rising and setting with the sun is in their blood, in the
very nature of who they are. That being one with the land is essential
to them. 

2.4 What bravery it takes in today’s world to follow a calling to teach.
To set aside other careers that offer far more prestige and economic
gain to instead be a sharer of knowledge, a shaper of minds. 

2.5 What overriding kindness calls one to take care of another’s body,
to be a healer? 

2.6 How does one explain a joy that is like no other and that comes from
the simple act of caring for a child, preparing a meal, bringing grace
and order to a home? 

2.7 This list of different callings could be endless, and each could be
considered unexplainable. Those who seek an explanation before following
a calling, who look for reasons of a practical nature, who would seek
guarantees of the rightness and outcome of following such a call, seek
for proof they have already been given. The call itself is proof. It is
proof of the heart’s ability to be heard. Of the heart’s ability to
recognize the unseen and to imagine the existence of that which will
reveal its true nature and its joy. 

2.8 All of you are capable of hearing the truth of what the heart would
tell you. All of you are just as capable of believing in that truth as
of doubting it. All that prevents you from believing in truth is a mind
and heart acting in separation rather than in union. 

2.9 You think that what prevents you from being who you are is far
broader than this simple idea of hearing and following a calling would
indicate. You think what prevents you from being who you are is far
broader than a division between mind and heart.  Some of you would say
you feel no calling, or that you feel many. Others would cite practical
reasons for doing other than what they feel called to do. All of these
ideas illustrate your belief that something other than your own
willingness is necessary. Only in your own willingness does anything
exist because only in your willingness is the power of creation
expressed.

